Doc: 6.0.0 Porting guides updates (#6513)
aristanetworks/ansible-avd: docs/porting-guides/6.x.x.md

ansible-galaxy collection install ansible.utils
```

### Jinja2 extensions are no longer needed in `ansible.cfg`

In AVD 5.x, the AVD documentation indicated that it was necessary to configure some Jinja2 extensions in `ansible.cfg`
This is no longer needed as the extensions are automatically loaded in `pyavd` when compiling the Jinja2 templates.

```diff
 [defaults]
-jinja2_extensions = jinja2.ext.loopcontrols,jinja2.ext.do,jinja2.ext.i18n
```

> ### The `anta` Python library is now a core dependency of `pyavd` Python package

Reviewer: Move to release-notes

> 

Reviewer: I feel like this section with overview table should go to the release-notes. It links to the detailed porting guides for the migrations, which is fine. If you don't agree just close

Author: agreed moved

 {%                     set collector_cli =  collector_cli ~ " port " ~ collector.port %}
```

## Changes to Ansible role arista.avd.eos_designs

### Removal of deprecated AVD Design (eos_designs) data models

> The following data model keys have been removed from AVD Design (`eos_designs`) date model in AVD 6.0.0.

Reviewer: we should add a sentence about reviewing the new model and updating your input variables accordingly.

Author: ```suggestion
The following data model keys have been removed from AVD Design (`eos_designs`) date model in AVD 6.0.0. 
#TODO: we should add a sentence about reviewing the new model and updating your input variables accordingly.
```

| `underlay_mutlticast` | `underlay_mutlticast_pim_sm` or `<node_type_key>.defaults.underlay_multicast.pim_sm.enabled` or `<node_type_key>.node_groups[].underlay_multicast.pim_sm.enabled` or `<node_type_key>.node_groups[].nodes[].underlay_multicast.pim_sm.enabled` or `<node_type_key>.nodes[].underlay_multicast.pim_sm.enabled` |
| `underlay_ospf_authentication.message_digest_keys[].key` | `underlay_ospf_authentication.message_digest_keys[].cleartext_key` |

> ### New AVD Design (eos_designs) schema restrictions

Author: ```suggestion
### New AVD Design (eos_designs) schema restrictions
#TODO: Here we also need a sentence on what to do with this information.
```

| `underlay_mutlticast` | `underlay_mutlticast_pim_sm` or `<node_type_key>.defaults.underlay_multicast.pim_sm.enabled` or `<node_type_key>.node_groups[].underlay_multicast.pim_sm.enabled` or `<node_type_key>.node_groups[].nodes[].underlay_multicast.pim_sm.enabled` or `<node_type_key>.nodes[].underlay_multicast.pim_sm.enabled` |
| `underlay_ospf_authentication.message_digest_keys[].key` | `underlay_ospf_authentication.message_digest_keys[].cleartext_key` |

> ### New AVD Design (eos_designs) schema restrictions

Reviewer: Here we also need a sentece on what to do with this information.

    Please refer to the [Ansible Vault documentation](https://docs.ansible.com/projects/ansible/latest/vault_guide/index.html) for more details.

<!-- This title is used in an error message in the AVD collection, please do not edit! -->

> ### Using EOS Config (`eos_cli_config_gen`) data models when running `eos_designs`

Reviewer: you changes this although the comment above said not to.

Author: fixed

+     enable: true
+   - name: use_mgmt_interface_vrf
+     enable: true
```

### SNMP `snmp-server` IPv4 and IPv6 ACLs are now only configured when the VRF is enabled under `snmp_settings.vrfs`

In AVD 5.x, SNMP `snmp-server` IPv4 and IPv6 ACLs were rendered even when the VRF was not enabled under `snmp_settings.vrfs`.

Starting with AVD 6.0.0, it is required to set `enable: true` under the VRF in order to render IPV4 and IPV6 ACLs or use `custom_structured_config`.

```diff
snmp_settings:
   vrfs:
    - name: Test_VRF
+     enable: true
      ipv4_acl: IPV4
```

### Changes in local user structured configuration for `no_password` and `disabled`

In AVD 5.x.x, `no_password: true` was always rendered in the structured configuration even if `sha512_password` was set, and even if `disabled: true` was configured for a local user, all other fields were still rendered in the structured configuration.

Starting with AVD 6.0.0, if `sha512_password` or `cleartext_password` is set, `no_password` is not rendered in the structured configuration, and if `disabled: true` is configured for a local user, other fields are not rendered in the structured configuration.

> ### eAPI is not enabled by default anymore in eos_designs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### eAPI is no longer enabled by default in eos_designs
```

In AVD 6.0.0, eAPI needs to be explicitly enabled as follows:

```diff
management_eapi:
+ enabled: true
  enable_https: true
```

### A management IP or IPv6 is now required to enable eAPI when `default_mgmt_method: oob`

Before AVD 6.x, it was possible to enable eAPI without setting `mgmt_ip` or `ipv6_mgmt_ip` when the default management method was set to out-of-band (which is the default) `default_mgmt_method: oob` and `management_eapi.vrfs` was not set.

Starting with AVD 6.0.0, enabling eAPI when the default management method is set to `oob` and `management_eapi.vrfs` is not set will raise an error if neither `mgmt_ip` nor `ipv6_mgmt_ip` are defined.
Below changes should be noted to migrate to AVD 6.0.0 without errors.

```diff
type: l2leaf

management_eapi:
+ enabled: true # This must be set for management_eapi to take effect.
  enable_https: true

l2leaf:
  nodes:
    - name: management-eapi-host
      id: 1
+     mgmt_ip: 10.10.10.1/8
```

### Default management interface changed for cEOS platforms

Starting with AVD 6.0.0, the default management interface for cEOS and cEOSLab platforms has been changed from `Management0` to `Management1`.

> This change was made because `Management0` in EOS is handled as a virtual interface used in chassis, which limits the possible configuration on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change was made because EOS handles `Management0` as a virtual interface used in a chassis, which limits the possible configurations on it.
```

Starting with AVD 6.0.0, Jinja templates will no longer have access to internal AVD variables previously exposed as `switch.*`.
This also applies to inline Jinja templates in the input variables (like host vars, group vars, task vars and play vars).

Examples of variables that can no longer be used:

- `{{ switch.id }}`
- `{{ switch.mgmt_ip }}`
- `{{ switch.mgmt_interface }}`

For custom IP Addressing or Interface Description templates, refer to the [documentation](../../ansible_collections/arista/avd/roles/eos_designs/docs/data-models.md#context-for-ip_addressing-templates) for the available variables.

Also refer to the documentation to see all the new models that may resolve the need for inline jinja templating.
Several of the new AVD models provide abstractions like `default_mgmt_method_ip` or `default_mgmt_method_vrf`,
which are intended to remove the need for inline Jinja templating in the input variables.

If there is no alternative available for your current use case, please open a GitHub issue so we can work with you to identify alternatives.
Users with a support agreement can contact Arista support to get assistance.

> ## Changes to role `arista.avd.eos_cli_config_gen`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Changes to the Ansible role `arista.avd.eos_cli_config_gen`
```

         command: "show interfaces description"
```

### `router_isis.set_overload_bit.enabled` is now required to generate the configuration and documentation for `ISIS Overload Bit` configurations

AVD 5.0.0 generated the ISIS set_overload_bit configuration and documentation independently of the `router_isis.set_overload_bit.enabled` key and allowed both `set-overload-bit` (permanent) and `set-overload-bit on-startup` to be rendered simultaneously in the configuration.

As of AVD 6.0.0, `router_isis.set_overload_bit.enabled` must be set to generate the configuration and documentation for `router_isis.set_overload_bit` and `set-overload-bit on-startup` command gets precedence in the configuration.

```diff
 router_isis:
   set_overload_bit:
+    enabled: true
     on_startup:
       wait_for_bgp:
         enabled: true
```

### Traffic policy named counters must now be explicitly defined under `traffic_policies.policies[].counters`

> In AVD 5.0.0, named counters were generated automatically based on the `traffic_policies.policies[].matches[].actions[].count` key.

Reviewer: 5.0.0 only? I think we should just say earlier releases or something generic.
